Blurb::
Bayesian calibration

Description::

Bayesian calibration methods take prior information on parameter
values (in the form of prior distributions) and observational data
(e.g. from experiments) and produce posterior distributions on the
parameter values. When the computational simulation is then executed
with samples from the posterior parameter distributions, the results
that are produced are consistent with ("agree with") the experimental
data. Calibrating parameters from a computational simulation model
requires a "likelihood function" that specifies the likelihood of
observing a particular observation given the model and its associated
parameterization; %Dakota assumes a Gaussian likelihood function
currently. The algorithms that produce the posterior distributions on
model parameters are most commonly Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC)
sampling algorithms. MCMC methods require many samples, often tens of
thousands, so in the case of model calibration, often emulators of the
computational simulation are used. For more details on the algorithms
underlying the methods, see the %Dakota User's manual.

%Dakota has three Bayesian calibration methods: QUESO, DREAM, and
GPMSA, specified with \c bayes_calibration \c queso, \c
bayes_calibration \c dream, or \c bayes_calibration \c gpmsa,
respectively.  The QUESO method uses components from the QUESO library
(Quantification of Uncertainty for Estimation, Simulation, and
Optimization) developed at The University of Texas at Austin.  %Dakota
uses its DRAM (Delayed Rejected Adaptive Metropolis) algorithm, and
variants, for the MCMC sampling.  DREAM (DiffeRential Evolution
Adaptive Metropolis) is a method that runs multiple different chains
simultaneously for global exploration, and automatically tunes the
proposal covariance during the process by a self-adaptive randomized
subspace sampling.  \cite Vrugt.  GPMSA (Gaussian Process Models for
Simulation Analysis) is an approach developed at Los Alamos National
Laboratory.  It constructs Gaussian process models to emulate the
expensive computational simulation as well as model discrepancy. GPMSA
also has extensive features for calibration, such as the capability to
include a "model discrepancy" term and the capability to model
functional data such as time series data.
 
The Bayesian capabilities are under active development.  At this
stage, the QUESO methods in %Dakota are the most advanced and robust,
followed by DREAM, followed by GPMSA, which is in prototype form at
this time.  %Dakota also has an experimental WASABI capability for
non-MCMC Bayesian inference; it is not yet ready for production use.
Note that as of Dakota 6.2, the field responses and associated field
data may be used with QUESO and DREAM.  That is, the user can specify
field simulation data and field experiment data, and Dakota will
interpolate and provide the proper residuals to the Bayesian
calibration.

Topics::	bayesian_calibration, package_queso
Examples::
Theory::
Faq::
See_Also::	
