Blurb::
???
Description::
The optional \c evaluation_servers and \c analysis_servers
specifications support user overrides of the automatic parallel
configuration for the number of evaluation servers and the number of
analysis servers. Similarly, the optional \c
evaluation_self_scheduling, \c evaluation_static_scheduling, \c
analysis_self_scheduling, and \c analysis_static_scheduling
specifications can be used to override the automatic parallel
configuration of scheduling approach at the evaluation and analysis
parallelism levels. That is, if the automatic configuration is
undesirable for some reason, the user can enforce a desired number of
partitions and a desired scheduling policy at these parallelism
levels. Refer to ParallelLibrary and the Parallel Computing chapter of
the Users Manual [\cite UsersMan "Adams et al., 2010"] for additional 
information.

When performing asynchronous local evaluations, the local evaluation
scheduling keywords control how new evaluation jobs are dispatched
when one completes. If \c local_evaluation_self_scheduling (default)
is specified, each completed evaluation will be replaced by the next
in the local evaluation queue. If \c
local_evaluation_static_scheduling is specified, each completed
evaluation will be replaced by an evaluation number congruent modulo
the \c evaluation_concurrency. This is helpful for relative node
scheduling as described in \c Dakota/examples/parallelism. For
example, assuming only local concurrency (no MPI), if the local
concurrency is 7 and job 2 completes, it will be replaced with job 9.
This can result in idle processors if runtimes are non-uniform.

For direct function interfaces, \c processors_per_analysis is an
additional optional setting within the required group which can be
used to specify multiprocessor analysis partitions. As with the \c
evaluation_servers, \c analysis_servers, \c
evaluation_self_scheduling, \c evaluation_static_scheduling, \c
analysis_self_scheduling, and \c analysis_static_scheduling
specifications, \c
processors_per_analysis provides a means for the user to override the
automatic parallel configuration (refer to ParallelLibrary and the
Parallel Computing chapter of the Users Manual 
[\cite UsersMan "Adams et al., 2010"]) for the number of
processors used for each analysis partition. Note that if both \c
analysis_servers and \c processors_per_analysis are specified and they
are not in agreement, then \c analysis_servers takes precedence. 

Topics::	problem, concurrency_and_parallelism
Examples::
Theory::
Faq::
See_Also::	
